---
layout: post
title: The REU Format and My Schedule
date: 2015-07-03
---

It's been a few days since my last post and quite a lot has happened since then (much more so since I first arrived here in Chicago). After reading
my last post, I realized I neglected to tell you all about what the REU program is actually like! Forgive me, as I was so excited about the mathematics
I had learned in the first few days that I wanted to get a technical post up as soon as I could. So let's start off with a few more details about the group
of people I'm working closely with here at The University of Chicago. I'll then try to give you guys an idea of what my schedule looks like.

The REU In General
------------------
[Professor J. Peter May](http://www.math.uchicago.edu/~may/) currently organizes the whole core Chicago REU. The REU is hosting
numerous classes on special topics in Number Theory, Analysis, Logic, Algebraic Topology, etc. In addition to teaching one of the
classes at the REU, Peter May is also acting as an informal advisor for students that want to talk to him about mathematics, graduate school
and other various things. He has been a tremendous help and an amazing person to me and the other students at this REU. We've had
several conversations so far and I suspect we will be having many more.

I have talked, met, and have made friends with some great people from all around the US and the World. Everyone I have met has had that truly deep love for
mathematics that I can relate to. Everyone has had a wide variety of interests; I've met students interested in probability theory, algebraic topology,
category theory, lie theory, and logic just to name a few. Surprisingly (and somewhat unsurprisingly) I have yet to meet anyone truly interested in analysis.
Coming from a school that only specializes in analysis and related fields, this is quite different than what I'm used to. Although admittedly, since I am not currently
attending any of the lectures related to analysis, I haven't exactly been hanging out places where an analyst might be :). It's nice to have a change of scenery though.

Benson's Group
--------------
In addition to the normal REU, I am also involved in a separate but not disjoint program with students that work under the guidance of
[Professor Benson Farb](http://www.math.uchicago.edu/~farb/).
Benson has us working on the very general topic of polynomials. During the first week, he gave all of us a number of interesting projects that would serve
as good avenues of research. These topics include problems involving polynomials from the viewpoint of Algebraic Geometry, Algebraic Topology,
Combinatorics, among others. I'll admit, when Professor Farb first told me we would be working on the topic of Polynomials, I was a bit skeptical. I had
assumed since they have been so well known for so long and so "simple" (you learn about the damn things in middle-school/high-school) that there
was nothing to be done! Benson completely surprised me with amazing facts like the braid group correspondence and also by introducing various
other interesting problems that one can explore.

Naturally, Benson's group is partitioned into subgroups that are all working on different problems in polynomials from various viewpoints. Officially,
I am in a group that is supposed to investigate torsion in the cohomology of braid groups (although we're not quite ready to even discuss torsion as we
are still working on a lot of the background). My group consists of three people: Nir Gadish, the knowledgeable and very helpful graduate advisor for
the group; Peter Haine, a brilliant student studying at MIT; and myself, Randy Van Why from New Mexico Tech :). I'll discuss the group dynamic in a bit.
Since all the students of the REU are required to write a technical paper by the end of August, I am hoping that my work with Benson's group will
serve as the basis of my paper. If Peter and I wind up doing something new, maybe we could even get published. Who knows.


What I'm Up To
--------------
I am currently attending two lecture series regularly: Number Theory and Algebraic Topology. For the first week, I was attending most of the lectures but slowly gravitated
towards the ones I enjoyed most. Much of the class material has been elementary and aimed at building the background necessary to discuss the special topics in the weeks to come.
As the program progresses, different lecture series will be introduced. I am planning on attending the seminar on Geometry when it comes around.

Benson's group met three times on the first week (MWF) and we plan on meeting two times a week for the next weeks to come (MW). Nir, Peter,
and I have decided to continue to meet for a third time outside of Benson's group (F) since we have been progressing somewhat rapidly. Benson's meetings begin at 2:30PM and have
been very regularly structured so far. At the start of the meeting, a graduate student mentor will begin a lecture on a special topic involving the topics that the subgroups
are all working on. So far we've discussed things like the generating functions viewpoint of polynomials over finite fields and basic homological algebra. Usually these lectures last
until 3:30PM-4:00PM. From there we break up into our subgroups and begin discussing our progress with our mentors. Usually, Peter and I end up talking to Nir until 5:00PM and sometimes later.

When I'm not in class or with Benson's group, I am usually reading books and papers on mathematics or talking with friends (usually about mathematics). I miss everyone back home tremendously.
My fiance Kailee Zingler and I keep in touch every day and I have been calling my family on the weekends as well as emailing them all periodically. I can't wait to share what I have learned
with all my mathematics friends back home (Sean, Tyler, Ty, Daniel, Mary, Jesse...just to name a few). There is much more to say but I am going to spare you the reading and conclude this
post here. I hope now you guys have a better idea of what things are like here (at least structurally). If you want to know more, send me and email and I'll gladly fill you in.
I am working on a technical post at the moment so stay tuned!